* The USB implementation in the kernel of the mobile devices is robust enough for running our system.
* The level of software modification to enable host + charging is acceptable.
* Cell phones can simultaneously charge and offer USB host for talking with USB devices.
* Headset ports have enough data bandwidth to replace USB for our purposes of receiving / sending radio messages.
* Headset ports can supply enough power to replace USB for our purposes.
* It is desireable to have the cheapest possible system.
* It is technologically feasible to produce a transceiver for our system using low-cost materials.
* The microphone bias supply voltage on a headset port can supply adequate power for the analog circuitry in an optimised transceiver.
* It is cost effective to build a power supply into the radio module.
* It is cost effective to build a battery into the radio module.
* It is ideal to have no user-serviceable parts (batteries) in the radio module.
* It is possible to make a radio module small enough to be conveniently carried in a pocket, or attached to a phone otherwise in use.
* It is possible to condense what has been implemented with a dedicated USB receiver and dedicated USB transmitter into a single highly integrated analog circuit that is cheap enough to mass produce.
* Silicons diodes have low enough of a forward drop to be viable for use as rectification.
* Small enough antennae can be found or made such that the radio module is not prohibitively bulky.
* A low-enough voltage radio module design exists to be powered without requiring external connectors or batteries.
* The super-regenerative receiver with which we started is low power enough for operation off a headphone jack.
 * false - ~900uA quiescent current for receiver @ 2v
* The high turn step-up coil can still produce enough current to power the transmitter and receiver.
